---
layout: post
title:  bitcoin
# date:   2021-12-25 -0000
permalink: /bitcoin
categories: bitcoin
---

So you’ve heard Bitcoin is peer-to-peer transaction system. You can pay someone 5bitcoin(you wish you had 5 bitcoin to pay someone :p) without a trusted third party(banks). But how does the other person knows that you have 5 bitcoin? If it was in person scenario, payee can see and be satisfied. If it was using banks, they know how much money you can spend and store your transactions for future requests?

In Bitcoin network, you send a transaction request to everyone(nodes) in the network to validate your transaction. How do they do it? We’ll see. You’re not the only who wants to send some bitcoin to other person, they also broadcast it to everyone. Imagine X is also in the network, and he receives some 20 broadcasts from people who sent transaction request. X tries to verify all these transactions(proof-of-work/mining) and eventually generates a Hash which verifies all these transactions are valid and pushes this block of transactions to everyone that I verified it. Everyone checks and it gets added to a list(Blockchain) of transaction validated till now. X gets rewarded some bitcoin(This is how new bitcoins are generated). 

The transaction were broadcasted to a lot of people. Imagine Y also validated the transaction at the same time and broadcasted it’s solution to everyone. Who’ll get rewared, X or Y? Depends on who’s working hard to validate the next block of transactions. The longest proof-of-work chain wins and is accepted by eveyone in the network. 

How many bitcoins in a block? When it started for every block mined(validated)you received 50BTC, but it gets halved every 4 years, and now miners receive 6.25BTC.

Q(my brother asked): “Agar banks nahi rahengey to loan kaun dega, aur kitne rate pe, sab apni manmani karenge aur phirse sahukar wale zamane me chale jayenge”(If Bitcoin is widely adopted in future, who’ll provide loan, at what rate?”
